---
title: 'The Power Pages Paradox - How the Design Studio, Dataverse and the Portal Management App Work Together - Part 2'
date: 2025-02-22
author: Robert Knowles
permalink: /posts/2025/pp-paradox-parttwo
tags:
  - power pages
  - new developers
---

## Part 2 - Behind the scenes 

Welcome to Part 2. Part 1 is here:

So, how can low-code developers approach one challenge from multiple directions, and still end up with a production-ready site? The key is Dataverse, in particular the Power Pages tables. I expect a large percentage of those reading this post are more than familiar with these tables, but bear with me.

These tables - denoted by msdyn_ prefix for the Enhanced Data Model or adx_ for the Standard Data Model - are where the magic happens. You'll have them automatically installed when you first opt to create a new Power Pages site and its where all the components of your site (or sites) are stored. I won't go into further detail, but most of what you create in the Design Studio or PP Management app is saved as records on one of these tables.

(Yes, in theory you can edit these records in Dataverse, or via whatever your preferred data editing tool is, but i'd recommend doing this in small doses)

So, we have our destination and a few routes to get there - splendid! When working on a real-world project though, we often need to know where we are at any given point, where others are up to, and to avoid getting in each others way. Whether reporting at a stand-up or delivering some beefy documentation, you need to be clear and precise about what has been changed and what has been created. You might even have, god forbid, other people working on the same site components! 

Unfortunately, its these boring but fundamental bits of Power Platform where Power Pages development can tangle even experienced developers up in knots. The worst part is, you may not even realise it. However, as someone who has been in said tangle - i've put together a short guide to guide you through the maze:

| Design Studio | PP Management App | Dataverse |
| ------------- | ----------------- |---------- |
| Add a new web page |  Creates two new web page records - one root web page and one content page | The msdyn_ table will have two new entries  |


